Shamyl Zakariya
534 25th Ave S
Seattle WA, 98144

http://shamylzakariya.github.io/
mailto:shamyl@gmail.com
(703) 851-4193

I strive to build products which people will find delightful to use. I'm a graphic designer, but I'm also a programmer and I live and breathe code as much as design. In my work, behavior is design (and design is behavior), so designing, building, and prototyping simultaneously is paramount. 

This means I spend as much time in Photoshop, Illustrator and Sketch as I do in TextMate, IntelliJ IDEA, Xcode, Android Studio, and the terminal. By day I'm primarily responsible for logo design, web design, print design, user interface design, user interface prototyping, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript development; but in my free time I write graphics code in C++/OpenGL and apps/games/interactive doodads in C/C++/Objective-C/Swift/Java/Node and so on.


Career:
1997-1999: Darden School of Business, Charlottesville VA
Graphic designer, programmer

At Darden I designed & built educational software in Macromedia Flash and Director. 

1997: University of Virginia’s Virtual Reality lab, under Randy Pausch
3D Modeler, Texture Mapper

1999-2016: APCO Worldwide, Washington DC (later Seattle, WA)
Art director, client-side web programmer

At APCO Worldwide I was responsible for working with clients to design logos, websites, print materials, web applications, and native mobile applications. Further, I did UX sketches and refinement, and prototyped user interface interaction. When my responsibility included building the final product, I built it using modern standards and practices appropriate to the platform; finally, I maintained and updated the products over time.

2013-2015: ConsultPro (a startup)
I designed and built an iPad app for hair salons. The app helped stylists manage clients and to draw schematics of how hair styles would be cut from a technical standpoint. I was responsible for UX, UI design, and all development - from the iPad app to the network sync backend. The app never took off, but it worked beautifully.

Daily Skills:
Photoshop, Illustrator, Sketch
C, C++, Objective-C, Swift, Java, JavaScript, HTML5, Android SDK, iOS SDK
Git, Subversion

Android Development:
The basics (e.g., Android SDK + appcompat), as well as popular third party APIs such as OkHTTP, Retrofit, Butterknife, Realm, etc. I have a few open source Android projects, including a couple libraries on Github accessible via jcenter.

iOS Development:
The basics (e.g., iOS SDK), Storyboards, AutoLayout (via IB and code), various Cocoapod such as AlamoFire, Realm, etc. I’ve written iOS apps in ObjectiveC back in the day, and pure Swift more recently. See my Github for some iOS apps.

Personal Work:
In my personal work I’ve developed robotics simulations, simple behavioral-based locomotion control systems, 2D & 3D visualizations in OpenGL, and more, in lower level languages like C and C++. I’ve written 2D and 3D games in OpenGL. I’ve also built micro-service back ends for web applications in Node and Spark Java (a Node-like Java framework built on top of Jetty).

Occasional Skills:
Familiarity with InDesign
Familiarity with Python & Ruby

Education:
Art, University of Virginia, class of 1999
A lifetime of reading, building, experimenting and trying to make neat things

