Shamyl Zakariya
534 25th Ave S
Seattle WA, 98144

http://shamylzakariya.github.io/
mailto:shamyl@gmail.com
(703) 851-4193

I'm a C, C++, Objective-C, C#, Java, Swift, Python, OpenGL/GLSL and anything else programmer focusing on user experience, graphics, performance, mobile apps and AR/VR.

2019-present: Bluehawk, LLC
Software Engineer, contracted to Google
In my work for Google I have been responsible for building a tool for identifying the nuances and corner cases of Android performance, to aid in making Android a better platform for games. In this role I've been responsible for designing and building the testing framework, data reporting/analysis, and a suite of tests which exercise OpenGL, multi-threading strategies, and other performance-oriented tests relevant to game engine designers.

2016-2019: Vulcan, Inc
Senior Software Engineer, Rapid Prototyping
At Vulcan I was responsible for prototyping Paul Allen's vision with a goal towards productization and IP generation.
- Augmented reality in-stadium fan experience for the Seahawks for AR glasses and phones
- Android-based data collection/distribution system for health workers in developing nations to monitor trends to detect possible outbreaks
- Hololens-based security glasses experience (ML backend) to aid personnel in recognizing persons of interest on a property
- Indoor location tracking for venues to improve customer experience while preserving user privacy
- Developer simulator for Vulcan's Holodome
- Input calibration tool for Vulcan's Holodome installations
- Multi-camera synthesis for simulating “body presence” in virtual reality

Personal Work:
In my personal work I've developed robotics simulations (simple behavioral-based locomotion control systems with 2D & 3D visualizations in OpenGL) in C++ with hardware abstraction to enable the models to talk to real hardware. I've written several 2D and 3D games and game engines in C++/OpenGL. I've also built micro-service back ends for web applications in Node and Spark Java (a Node-like Java framework built on top of Jetty).

1999-2016: APCO Worldwide
Art Director, Front-End Developer
At APCO Worldwide I was responsible for working with clients to prototype, test, design and build websites, web applications, data visualizations, online games, and native mobile applications.

2013-2015: ConsultPro (a failed startup)
UX Designer, UI Designer, Full-Stack Developer
For ConsultPro I was responsible for UX design, UX testing, UI design, iOS development and backend network sync API design and implementation.

1997-1999: Darden School of Business, Charlottesville VA
Graphic Designer & Programmer
At Darden I designed & built educational software in Macromedia Flash and Director.

Education:
Art, University of Virginia, class of 1999
A lifetime of reading, building, experimenting and trying to make interesting things
